### GETTING THERE


**Metro linea 2, Cumana or Circumflegrea**: stop** Montesanto.** 

**Metro linea 1**: stop **Dante,** **Toledo, Università**.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHAT TO SEE


There is so much to see here that it's hard to make a list.

Assuming you're taking the subway (Metro linea 2) from wherever you are
to the stop **Montesanto**, you will have to walk along the so called
**"Spaccanapoli"**, a long straight road that splits (spacca) the city
in two. Part of it lies on one of the two "decumani", the roman street
denomination. Crossing via Toledo and via Monteoliveto you arrive in
**Piazza del Gesù.** Don't miss **Chiesa del Gesù** and **Chiesa di
Santa Chiara**. Pay attention to the façade of Chiesa del Gesù. Some of
the pyramid decorating it have some strange symbols carved. They say
it's due to some exoteric ritual to protect the church (some say to
curse it). Even if you have to pay, it's worth visiting the **Chiostro
di S. Chiara**, just beside the homonym church. Proceed further and you
will end up in **Piazza San Domenico Maggiore**, another important
highlight. Strangely enough, the church there (**Chiesa di San Domenico
Maggiore**) does not face the piazza, rather it's rotated. Enter and
give a look anyway. Right at the opposite side there is one of the most
famous caffé in Naples, **Scaturchio**. Add at least a coffee and a
**"sfogliatella"** to your checklist. Close to there another chapel is
worth visiting, **Cappella di San Severo**. Even if you have to pay,
don't absolutely miss it. The statue **il Cristo velato** is one of the
most beautiful things I have ever seen. Go downstairs as well.


Another couple of things that I like there. You have to move up to the
other "decumano", namely via Tribunali. In piazza San Lorenzo you can
visit some roman ruins, **Scavi di San Lorenzo**, right beneath the
church. On the other side of the piazza there is the entrance of
**Napoli Sotterranea**, where you can visit (some of) the galleries
built in the centuries to supply water to the city. There is a similar
visit you can make starting from Piazza Plebiscito (see [Quartiere
Chiaia]()).
I recommend both. If you have to chose only one, I don't really now. In
both cases the visit are only with guided tours (I'm not sure about the
scavi di San Lorenzo).

You can also consider a visit to [Pio Monte della
Misericordia](http://goo.gl/maps/gl33U), the collection of paintings
there is quite remarkable, and includes one by **Caravaggio**.


If you proceed along any of the two decumani, you cross **via Duomo**
where the cathedral is found. Twice a year, the **miracle of San
Gennaro** takes place there. The tradition goes that the saint was
beheaded and some of its blood was preserved in a glass container, kept
in a safe in the cathedral. The blood is clotted, of course. Twice a
year people gather praying in the cathedral, the archbishop opens the
safe and the blood is fluid again. Miracle! This occurs 19th September
(the day San Gennaro died) and again in spring. The container with
liquified blood is usually shown for a few weeks after the miracle, and
once it was possible to touch and kiss it as a sign of devotion. It goes
without saying that, in case the blood does not liquify, it means that
San Gennaro is particularly mad at the neapolitans and something bad
will happen to the city in that year. Strangely enough, this happens
very rarely. Along via Duomo there are one or two shops selling "holy
accessories". If you want to buy one of those funny hat that priests and
archbishop wear, you can find it. I'm not sure it's cheap.


One place that I also like in the area is **Chiostro di San
Marcellino**. On one side there was (there should still be) the
**Natural History Museum** of the university. Don't expect the size of
New York, but even they have their dinosaur, called **Dino** (if I'm not
mistaken). It should be quite full of students there. Since it's a
university building, you should be able to take the stairs down to the
level of **Corso Umberto I**, a very busy road that goes to Piazza
Garibaldi (the main station). Along Corso Umberto I there is also the
main building of the university.


From there, take the subway. As a subway it's not a big deal, it's still
under construction so now goes only every 15 min on one track only. But
the stations of **Università, Toledo** (opened last 17th September)
**and Dante** are worth a visit themselves. From Dante to the other end
the subway goes more frequently, and takes you up to [Quartiere
Vomero]() and beyond. Many of the stations are worth a visit.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

EATING

As mentioned above, **Caffé Scaturchio** is a must. Moreover, along via
Tribunali are some of the best places to eat pizza. **Pizzeria del
Presidente**, **Sorbillo** and **Di Matteo** are all very good options.
A little further there is a very famous one, **da Michele**. Only
 margherita is served here! You have to go along corso Umberto I towards
the train station and then take a left in via Pietro Colletta (if I'm
not wrong). I haven't yet managed to go there, but it's supposed to be
one of the best in town. You can only order two types of pizza, I'm not
sure they have proper glasses, and it costs close to nothing. Just
opposite there is **Trianon**, also very good.


In **piazza Carità**, there is the **Gelateria della scimmia** (scimmia
is monkey). It's not my favorite, but it's very famous.
