### GETTING THERE


Metro linea 2: stazione **Piazza Amedeo,** stazione **Mergellina**.


Circumflegrea: stazione **Corso Vittorio Emanuele.**


------------------------------------------------------------------------

### WHAT TO SEE

This is considered one of the fancy areas of the city. The main point is
probably p**iazza del Plebiscito**. There is one game that is typical
there. Get close to **Palazzo Reale**, and face the church on the
opposite side. It's apparently very hard to walk straight between the
two horses if you are blindfolded. You obviously need someone watching
you.


The typical walk is from piazza Trieste e Trento (the smaller one right
next to Plebiscito), where you can see **Teatro San Carlo**, the oldest
in Italy. Just next to it there is **Galleria Umberto I**, similar to
the galleria in Milano. The Palazzo Reale also hosts the national
library, and the garden is quite nice. The visit of Palazzo Reale is
also worth, but I'm not sure about the openings. From there you can walk
along the coast, until you find **Castel dell'Ovo** (egg castle). There
are several hypotheses on the origin of the name, apparently due to a
spell that Virgil had cast to protect it. At any rate, the view from the
terrace is very nice, and the entrance is free. If you proceed along the
coast, **via Partenope** (the ancient name of the city), you will find
piazza Vittoria and **via Caracciolo**. As it is car free now, this
should be a very nice walk. Almost at the end of via Caracciolo, one or
two blocks from the sea there is a very good gelateria, **Remy gelo**.


I can also recommend the visit to the **Tunnel Borbonico**. It's a visit
to some of the many cavities that are underground. They organized a nice
tour (also in english), there should be even one tour on a raft. At the
end of the visit you can either go back to the entrance or proceed to
the other end. The entrance is close to piazza Plebiscito. There are
usually people with signs just in front of **Caffè Gambrinus**.


From piazza Vittoria you can go along **via Filangieri** and **via dei
Mille** all the way to **piazza Amedeo**. This is an important point
because you can take the subway number 2 to Pozzuoli or back towards the
center. Also, piazza Amedeo and surroundings, like **via Martucci**, are
quite crowded on Friday and especially Saturday night.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

### EATING


I mentioned Remy Gelo and Gambrinus. The latter is a super fancy caffè
in piazza Plebiscito. Still, the coffee is cheaper than any bar in any
other country. In the area of **piazza San Pasquale, piazza Amedeo, via
Martucci** there are many many places to eat something.
