### GETTING THERE

You can get there in several ways. With any **funicolare**, which brings
you uphill very quickly, or with the **metro linea 1,** stops
**Vanvitelli, Medaglie d'oro, Collana**.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

### WHAT TO SEE

There are several reasons to go there. One is definitely **Castel
Sant'Elmo**, again the view from the terraces is breathtaking. It's not
free as Castel dell'Ovo, but it should be reasonably cheap. There might
be some event going on there. **Certosa di San Martino** next to it is
also another highlight, with a beautiful view. I only went there once
long time ago. From piazza Vanvitelli, you have to go uphill. The
closest funicular is **Funicolare di Montesanto**.

Another reason is that the area is very lively, as there is a big
concentration of shops. It's some sort of a gigantic shopping center,
but slightly nicer. So I recommend it on a week day in the afternoon if
you want to see people buzzing around. **Villa Floridiana** is a nice
park that also offers a beautiful view on the gulf, and the entrance is
free.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### EATING

Right in piazza Vanvitelli you can have a good ice cream, the place is
called **Fantasia Gelati**. I can recommend the flavor "Benevento". A
good pizzeria is 100m from there, in via Cimarosa between the station of
the **Funicolare di Chiaia** and **Funicolare Centrale**. It's called
Acunzo (if I'm not wrong). A coffee that I really like is **Bar
Mexico**, that is on **via Scarlatti** just 100m up from piazza
Vanvitelli. Finally, the real reason why anyone should visit Vomero:
**Friggitoria Vomero**. It's been in **piazza Fuga** since the fifties
at least, just opposite the Funicolare Centrale. All they serve is fried
stuff that you take away. When I was at high school we used to have
something like "2000 lire di misto", that would be mixed stuff for one
euro and it was a lot. Now the price have probably risen, but maybe not
much.
